So in the repository we're gonna
grab this inspirational quotes, and
we're gonna take it for a spin.
Because the other thing turns out
a lot of times in our UI apps,
we always just don't have, we're not
just making counters all the time, or
even in memory, only to do lists.
Sometimes we have to talk to APIs.
I know, I know, it happens, right?
And we have to make network requests.
Let's just talk about some
of the pieces around that.
And we'll also then talk about,
what if we wanna pass set states through?
And we'll kinda use that as a slightly
more sophisticated playground for
getting a few more concepts in there.
So go ahead and just pull that down,
and you should be good to go.
And I'll get set up as well.
And then I'll see you in a minute.
So there's not a lot to
see in this app yet,
because it is supposed to hit an API and
I have not dealt with that yet.
So applications that are supposed
to hit APIs and then don't,
don't do a lot of stuff yet, but we will.
I do have the functionality
to hit said APIs, all right?
We've got fetchRandomQuote and
fetchQuotes.
Just for those you that are interested,
this is using a library called mirage.js,
which simulates an API server.
So I don't have to worry
about core stuff later,
but it's also really great for testing.
Or the hypothetical situation
where you need to build
a UI before the API is ready.
That happens to me.
>> That's why we use Frontend Masters-
>> Yeah.
>> For development,
then the backend can just make it real.
>> So right now we have a problem,
which is, theoretically,
we don't know what a quote is yet, right?
And that's an easy fix, but
this is where I let TypeScript
handle everything for you.
It's really good about that,
until it does not have enough information.
That's usually the only time that you
need to step in because you're like, yo,
useState is like, quote.
Quote is undefined, right?
And it thinks that it will
forever be undefined.
It's like, cool, quote is undefined,
you can only set quote to undefined,
now great.
And then, I think, if I tried to use quote
down here it's like, we do catch it.
It is a constant of undefined, you almost
always get the loading situation here.
So, what we need to do is figure out,
if we tried to take the solution
that we had before,
if I look at the quote type, I can see
it has an id content and a source.
Really, I need the content and
the source to make this work.
And so, one solution, and
honestly depending on your use case,
which is not a terrible solution,
which would be to give it what I
call an empty value in this case.
And then maybe you have a skeleton loader,
and you get the right shape of everything.
If you can pull it off with
whatever you're working on,
this does have some problems,
which is now like,
this won't work because technically
this is an object that exists.
Also it's like,
this is not prepared to have an ID because
it's trying to guess it from the type.
There's lots of other edge cases.
Let's talk about the more generic one
where it's like, the data might have one
of a few different shapes, or more than
you have, more than you can just fake
out in the very beginning, or
to the point where it's not worth it.
So in this case, we basically just
need to say kinda like when we used
a question mark before to say, this is
either this value or it's undefined.
We've seen this syntax, and
if you've used TypeScript before
you've definitely seen it, but
I made promises that if you hadn't used
it you should be able to join with us.
And we can say, basically,
pass it a generic or
a type argument to what this should be.
It is trying to guess, but in the event
that it cannot guess correctly,
cuz it does not have enough information,
we can basically say, okay,
this is a quote, or it's undefined.
Right, so now it has figured
it all out for us, right?
We just had to give it a little bit of a
helping hand to get it all the way there.
And this will theoretically work for
us in this case.
So now this one will fetch
a quote when it finally runs.
And you'll notice that if I took this out,
because it's commented out, and
the JavaScript will still run if
you don't have a compile error.
So it's why you saw just an empty screen,
if you just spun up the app and
the loading indicator
didn't stay there forever.
Cuz the JavaScript was running,
it was just a TypeScript issue
that we had at that point.
But now it knows that it can be one or
the other.
We can actually pull this in.
What's really cool about this, that I
kinda wanna point out in this situation,
which is up here, quote is quote or
undefined, right?
Let's just, I don't know,
console.log a quote in the market
remind me to take it out.
It's quote or undefined, right?
Here we're saying,
it's quote or undefined.
But if there's no quote, return.
And not only does TypeScript check
the actual types in the type system, but
it's also kind of analyzing your code,
right?
And this is a dead end.
In the event that a quote is undefined,
right?
It's faulty, we return.
That means this code path stops here,
right?
This branch timeline ends, right?
It's been what pruned?
Is that the term of art?
Note, at this point forward,
if quote exists,
at all,
it can't be undefined anymore, right?
So you'd no longer have to deal with the
fact that it could be a quote or it could
be undefined, because the world in which
it was undefined ended on line 29, right?
And you can just kinda move along and it's
like it has already analyzed your code,
it has figured it out for you.
So it's one of those things if you find
yourself doing all these extra checks,
you could hover over it.
If I see somebody had put an like quote
nn to make sure it exists, right?
I can hover over and
see was this code necessary, right?
And get a sense of,
is this actually quote or undefined, or
is it now definitely a quote
cuz I've done something, right?
To confirm it one way or the other.
And this will come back to
surprise us in a delightful way,
unlike most technical surprises,
which are not delightful,
when we work on action creators and
reducers later.
But, yeah, that is a nice thing to
know as you kinda go through and
work through all these things.
But if you don't have a default value, you
can say, could be this thing or undefined.
You have lots of options, you just
have to help TypeScript along the way.
And sometimes, in return,
TypeScript will help you, right?
It's a symbiotic relationship.